============================================================================
                            REVIEWER #3
============================================================================ 


---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reviewer's Scores
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

            Scholarly/scientific quality: medium low
                                 Novelty: medium low
                      Relevance of topic: medium high
                              Importance: medium high
      Readability and paper organisation: medium low
                      Title and abstract: yes
                            Bibliography: no
         Make Review Publicly Accessible: Yes


---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Comments
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Summary:

This paper recognizes the very prominent issue of "not enough data" due to the
current state of copyright laws which stifles research on audio-based content
in MIR. To help alleviate this issue, the paper presents a new dataset
consisting of various metadata and (more importantly) complete audio for over
100,000 music pieces distributed under permissive Creative Commons licenses
(making it freely shareable). In addition, some steps were taken to ensure the
dataset's online availability for a prolonged period of time. The paper
presents some basic statistical evaluation of the dataset contents and provides
some suggestions on how the dataset can be used. 

I would like to welcome with open arms any well-organized data for MIR
research, such as the one presented in this paper. However, the quality of
presentation is rather disappointing. Although I reject this paper in its
current state, I encourage the authors to improve it and publish as soon as
possible. The dataset indeed has many desirable properties and many researchers
would be interested to work with it.

Below are some comments in no particular order.

-----

The authors of this paper are implying that MIR researchers are doing illegal
research. This implication NOT true; moreover, it is harmful to the MIR
community. The GTZAN dataset (among others) is not illegal in many countries;
it is definitely not illegal in the country where it is hosted. The claim
"often regardless of copyrights" is unsupported, this paper gives no evidence
that authors of other datasets did not consider the legal issues and fair use
concepts before making the audio excerpts publically available. In fact, this
is perhaps one of the main reasons why the new datasets "force researchers to
download audio excerpts from online services", as the authors of this paper
recognized but obviously misunderstood. In the long run, this way of going to
the source distributor of content allows proper adherence with and quick
response to the ever-changing copyright laws.

-----

This paper refers to the work of Bub Sturm, where he analyzed GTZAN dataset
extensively, this means that its authors should be aware of the dataset's main
limitation. The next sentence after Bob Sturm's reference "The main limitations
of GTZAN is its illegality, small size, and missing metadata (no user ratings
or even artist name and song title)." is misleading -  it is this paper's
authors' own conjecture, not supported by [38] and [39], as may seem by
proximity. Bob Sturm identified completely different issues: duplication,
distortion, and mislabeling. These should be mentioned next to the citation
instead of the quoted sentence.

-----

FMA is not "large scale" and it is quite small when compared to MSD and the
newer AudioSet. Moreover, if ordered chronologically, one can see the growth in
size over time: 10k, 25k, 1000k, 2000k. The dataset proposed in this paper is a
relative setback to 100k size, which was already surpassed with the release of
MSD years ago. FMA is not large scale by today's measures, especially when
compared to the bar set by ImageNet at 14,000k. 

-----

The sentence containing "researchers are stuck with the set of chosen features"
implies that this is a problem, however, releasing pre-extracted features with
a dataset is a good practice. It allows researchers to fairly compare algorithm
performance to all other reported benchmarks with the peace of mind that
feature extraction is not a variable. This also allows researchers who are new
to the area to get a 'quick start' w/o having to learn about audio feature
extraction. The researchers are not "prevented to leverage feature learning
algorithms or end-to-end learning systems", as this paper states, in fact they
always have the freedom to obtain their own LEGAL copy of the audio. Anyway,
why say all of this and then release pre-extracted features with FMA? Seems
self-contradictory.

-----

The sentence starting with "Moreover, researchers are wary of proprietary
features" is misrepresenting the work of Schindler et al., their work was
motivated by the lack of easily obtainable audio and lack of consistent
genre/style labels (which were actually obtained by proprietary algorithms from
proprietary features). This shows that the authors of this paper did not fully
understand the work of Schindler et al. [32].

-----

Although it does contain many desired attributes, FMA is NOT "complete" as the
paper claims. For example, it lacks mood, style, instrument, symbolic notation,
etc. This is noted in Section 3.4 which conflicts with the completeness claim
in Section 1.

-----

Perhaps one advantage of providing a set of complete tracks (rather than 30
second excerpts) that should be highlighted is that it allows for proper study
of music properties that require the complete music track, for example music
structure analysis. Additionally, it has been shown in the literature that the
beginning 30 seconds of music tracks yield different classification accuracy
than the middle or the final 30 seconds. When researchers work with a 30 second
excerpt, downloaded from some online service, they do not necessarily have
control over which 30 seconds they get.

-----

The motivation of breaking FMA into subsets is not a particularly good one. Why
wouldn't a researcher download the entire thing and make own choices about
subsets based on research goals? Traditionally, a large dataset offered a small
subset (properly sampled) for quick download and as a toy dataset - to give an
idea of what the data looks like. Meanwhile, any serious research would make
use of the entire set. In my opinion, as it is, Section 2.6 can be omitted
entirely. Unfortunately, the paper does not propose any balanced subsets. 

-----

"3. Artists with lots of tracks were allocated across sets." grossly defeats
the purpose of doing "2. An artist filter for artists to be part of one set
only.". Section 2.7 is unclear. Also, why not include a pre-designated splits
for cross-validation? Two experiments using different random seed to determine
cross-validation splits could result in slightly different results. 

-----

"we can expect the dataset to be cross-referenced with other resources to
unlock additional tasks" - this would be a very desirable property of FMA which
is missing for now. 

-----

"only one top genre per track" implies that some genres have more than one top
genre, but the "genre_top" defined earlier (Section 2.4) clearly states that
there is either 1 or none per track.

-----

It is unclear how many genres are considered in the top genre category (what's
the dictionary size?), if it's 36 (from counting the labels in Figure 5) and
they are distributed as indicated - then the results in Table 7 most likely
biased towards the majority classes, which renders them meaningless.

-----

Table 5 suggests that there are at least 1235 top_level genres, judging by the
genre id. This number is higher than the 163 total genres reported in Section
2.4.

-----

The paper suggests that the proposed dataset can be used to strengthen
commercially used algorithms, however, the dataset does not contain any
mainstream music. There is no study performed to see if a dataset made up
entirely of mainstream music has the same properties as a dataset made up
entirely of non-mainstream music. Algorithms tailored for one are not
guaranteed to perform as well on the other. 

The nature of the proposed dataset, specifically that "it probably does not
contain hits from renown artists or commercial music", poses a serious problem
to many MIR tasks which is grossly understated in Section 3.4.

-----

The paper seems to overlook a serious limitation of FMA. When any study into
music tags is concerned (such as genre recognition), the proposed dataset is
limited to 23,496 tracks, according to: "In the FMA, tags can be found at the
track, album and artist level: 23,496 tracks (22%), 2,659 albums (18%) and
1,605 artists (10%) have at least one tag". This contradicts another statement
found elsewhere in the paper: "Tracks per genre on the full set, from 1 to
38,154".

In either case, the actual size of the proposed dataset for many MIR is less
than half the reported size.

-----

The authors of this paper are obviously familiar with work of Bob Sturm,
however, his suggestions and methodology are overlooked in this paper; when
they seem most applicable to creating a new dataset.

-----

Paper organization comment: based on the sections' content I suspect the "Genre
Recognition" is ought to be 3.4 and "Limitations" to be 4.

-----

References section comments:

Some author names are abbreviated (should be in full). 

ISMIR should be expanded, like other conferences' and journals' names.

Some citations appear inappropriately throughout the text.

References [4], [8], [11], [14], and [28] do not appear anywhere in text.

-----

Some wording issues:

To "unlock achievement" is nonsense unless speaking about video games, I
suggest either "unlock potential" or "attain achievement".

Sentence starting with "Unlike other modalities such as" is poorly structured,
the word "modalities" calls for audio modality to complete the parallel, not
"dataset for MIR".

I suspect that "Cheyenne Hohman, the director of the FMA" should read that he
is the director of WFMU. Similar comment for the sentence with "the FMA
provides a legal and technological platform".

100,000 tracks is not a "vast amount of audio" by today's standards.

The use of word "illegal" is inappropriate.
