============================================================================
                            REVIEWER #2
============================================================================ 


---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reviewer's Scores
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

            Scholarly/scientific quality: medium low
                                 Novelty: medium high
                      Relevance of topic: high
                              Importance: high
      Readability and paper organisation: low
                      Title and abstract: yes
                            Bibliography: yes
         Make Review Publicly Accessible: Yes


---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Comments
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a "dataset paper" presenting one of the largest annotated audio
collections available up to date. Definitely, we can expect this dataset to be
an important contribution to the MIR field and I congratulate the authors for
being able to gather this data. I am looking forward to seeing research using
the FMA dataset.

Still, I have a mixed feeling about this paper. By no doubts, the impact of
making such a dataset available to researchers is very high, but I would expect
a higher quality of the paper itself. This paper is supposed to be the first
academic reference introducing this dataset. It will be the "go to" reference
for many researchers. For this reason, in my opinion, it deserves the highest
quality of writing possible and it should be self-sufficient to describe all
key information related to the dataset.

To me, it seems that the paper is written and formatted rather poorly. It looks
like a raw draft, but not a final version of the manuscript. Information is
presented in a rather informal way, and some statements are not justified or
require further elaboration. Some sentences are too large and complex. They
should be split up in simpler phrases.

Tables are ordered somewhat chaotically, not following the order of their
presentation in the text, and some tables captions are misleading. They are
poorly formatted and sometimes refer to facts that are introduced in the text
only later.

Some important details are scattered across the whole text and should be
grouped together better. For example, only in section 3.3, we discover that
tags annotations are done on various levels (tracks, albums, artists), while
this should have been presented when describing the dataset in section 2.

To summarize my impressions, the presented dataset is very important, however,
the paper requires a revision due to the quality of the manuscript and missing
details.

Detailed comments below.

- I would abstain from using terms such as "legal" and "illegal" because such
qualifiers would depend on concrete actions and jurisdiction of different
countries. There may be a possible academic exception that would make "illegal"
datasets "legal". Use phrases such as "contains copyrighted audio", "does not
contain audio", and "contains CC-licensed audio" instead.

- It's worth mentioning the recent AcousticBrainz dataset in the review of the
datasets because it tries to address the copyright issue although from a
different perspective and it is the largest available dataset of open music
descriptors up to date.

- "Large datasets are needed ... to effectively learn models that incorporate
the ambiguities and inconsistencies that one finds with musical categories."

Is that really so? Wouldn't inconsistent taxonomy be still a problem? This is a
topic to study on its own. Please, provide some references for justification.

- "For statistical learning algorithms, the scale of FMA is comparable to
ImageNet and the most used ILSVRC (Table 2) and shall thus be sufficient for
the foreseeable future. Note that while image datasets are larger, the amount
of data is similar because of their smaller dimensionality."

Is it correct to compare the scales of required data for learning music data to
images, and why?

- Provide information about audio format apart from the kbit/s value discussing
audio quality in the available datasets. Are there lossless audio files too?

- Names for the subsets (Section 2.6) are somewhat misleading. "Full", "Medium"
and "Small" sets contain full tracks while the "Large" set contains audio
segments. The "Large" subset is conceptually different from the rest of the
sets, therefore I suggest renaming it to "Full-Segments", or renaming "Large"
to "Large-Segments" and "Full" to "Large" instead.

Metadata:

- Table 4 introduces available metadata. Where does this metadata come from?
Who annotated the metadata and what was the annotation process? How many tracks
are annotated by each metadata field from the table? Is it possible that many
fields are missing for the majority of the music collection? This information
is required to understand coverage of the metadata and its quality. For
instance, in Section 3.3 the authors mention that only 22% of the tracks have
associated tags.

- Authors propose that music genre recognition is one of the main tasks that
can be addressed by the FMA dataset. Therefore they should include as many
details related to genre annotation process as possible. It appears that genre
annotations are done by artists when uploading their music. Is there any
further moderation of such annotations and what is their quality? Are genre
annotations done on release level or on the level of individual tracks? (From
Table 3 it appears, the genres annotations are on the track level.) This is a
crucial information that is missing. Also, the authors do not question nor
justify the use of the FMA genre taxonomy.

- Following the taxonomy, root genres are retrieved for each track. In the case
there is only one root genre, it is stored in "genre_top". Why not storing all
root genres in the case there are multiple ones? Are there many cases of
multiple root genre annotations? It may appear that there are much more tracks
with multiple root genres than with a single root genre. Authors should provide
some statistics to address the question whether root genre recognition should
be treated as a single-label or multi-label problem.

- I would expect a more thorough investigation of the available tags to be the
part of this paper. How many different tags are present in the dataset? What
are these tags, can they be grouped by type? How are they different from
genres? 

- It is mentioned that the maximum number of genre per track is 31. Tracks with
such a large number of genres are potentially erroneous.

Data format:

- Why tracks.csv contains numbers for "genres_all"? I would expect a list of
strings similar to top genre and tags. Also, why not storing genre names as
strings in genres.csv too?

Current file format relies on both files, with annotations and with mapping of
genre IDs to genre names. This is unnecessary and may be counter-productive. I
suggest improving the file format for genres_all. For storing genre taxonomy
information, authors can also consider a simpler json format that would allow
having the whole genre taxonomy at glance.

Train/validation/test splits:

- It is mentioned that artists with lots of tracks were allocated across sets.
More details are necessary. I agree that the requirement to apply the artist
filter may be too difficult to accomplish without a significant loss in the
dataset size. Still it should be guaranteed that there are no tracks from the
same release (album) to avoid the potential album effect. Also, is it
guaranteed that all genre labels are present in training, validation and test
sets altogether?

Applications:

- Section 3.1 proposes research questions related to metadata analysis (if
would propose renaming this section to reflect this better). In my opinion,
there are much better datasets for addressing research questions that are
proposed, for example, MusicBrainz, AllMusic, Discogs and Last.fm provide large
amounts of such metadata. This is not a problem, and the FMA can be another
valid dataset. What I suggest is that this section can intend to give better
examples of research questions related to metadata for which the FMA dataset is
really beneficial.

- Section 3.2. It is not clear if play counts are available on a per-user basis
or they are overall counts by all users. Again, this is an important
information that is missing, which makes difficult to understand the actual
usefulness of user-related data in FMA for the task of music recommendation.

Figures and tables:

- Captions for Figures 1 and 2 mention intervals that do not correspond to the
actual plots.

- Figure 5. It is not clear what is "the full set" and "the curated medium
subset" at the moment when this figure is introduced in the text for the first
time.

- Figure 6 should use a simple line plot so that it will be possible to see all
values for track, album, and artists.

- Table 7: are the accuracies for the validation or for the test set?

- Table 2: Capture can be improved. What is the length and how is it different
from the number of samples? A simple "(s)" would help and "#examples" or
"files" or an explanation would clarify too. Rephrase: "Size is for a directory
containing all .mp3 or .jpg in GiB, an indication..."

Rephrase:

- "Complete" quality. I would not name this paragraph "Complete" as it is now
clear what this work refers to on its own. Use a better phrase (e.g. "Rich in
metadata").
- "quick start using the data" --> "start using the data quickly"
- "the date of collection" - rephrase as it is not clear the meaning of the
word "collection" (e.g., "the date of gathering the dataset")
- "See Figure 1 to visualize the growth" --> "Figure 1 shows the growth"
- "meta-informations" --> "metadata"
- "Which semantic categories can we found" --> "can we find"
- "As often encountered with natural categories, it obeys a power law."
- "Moreover, researchers are wary of proprietary features such as those
computed by commercial services like Echonest and have extracted features by
themselves on the MSD by downloading sample audio, a tedious process [32]."
